Inside of our order show component.
We're now going to work on showing a little timer to the user.
This timer is going to update once per second.
That's going to start off at 60 seconds and eventually count down to zero.
As soon as it hits zero, we're then going to hide the timer and hide the pay button and we'll show
some message instead that says something like, Sorry, but your order has been canceled or it has been
expired, or something similar to that.
Now, first thing I want to do is show you how we can very easily get the time that we have left to
actually pay for the order.
So back over here.
I'm going to refresh my or I'm going to go back to the ticket creation page.
I'm going to make sure I've got my network request log open and I'll click on purchase.
So I just made an order and I can see it inside of my network request log.
So when we fetch that order, remember that it has the expires at property and that is a timestamp.
So to calculate the number of seconds until it expires, that comes or passes or elapses, however you
want to refer to that, we can write out new date, then paste in the expires at time.
Here we go.
And then from that, I'm going to subtract.
New date like so.
And that's going to give me the number of milliseconds until that time right there is, I suppose,
in the present or right now.
So if I run again, it's at 17, 16, 15, 14 and so on.
Now I say 15.
That means this is again 14,000 milliseconds.
Divide that by 1000.
That gives us seconds.
So that's pretty much the calculation we need to do and we need to run that calculation once per second.
Every time we run the calculation and figure out how many milliseconds are left, we're going to update
a piece of state inside of our order show component and simply show that piece of state on the screen.
That's pretty much it.
So not the worst thing in the world.
All right.
So back inside of order show we first need to get access to the order that we are trying to show on
the screen.
And so, once again, that means we have to define a get initial prop function and fetch the order.
It's all put in order so that get initial props.
Again, this will be an async function.
That's going to receive context and client.
I'll then pull the order ID.
Out of context query and again it is specifically order ID because that is how we named our file square
brackets order ID.
Then to fetch details about the order.
I'm going to pull out data from the Axios response coming from a weight client blanket.
We'll use a template string right here and put in API orders.
Order ID.
And then at the bottom, I'm going to return.
Order.
As data.
Now, again, we've spoken about this several times.
This object is going to be merged with all the different props go into order show.
So we should now be able to structure out the order like so.
So to get started, let's just try to calculate the number of seconds left before this order expires
and just show that as a fixed value inside this div.
So to calculate the number of seconds we have left, we would put in.
M's left, which is going to stand for milliseconds left and that will be new date from order dot expires
at and I'll subtract from that new date.
Then inside the div I'm going to delete order show and I will replace it with.
Square or curly braces.
RMS left divided by 1000 just to turn it into seconds and then seconds until order expires.
Okay.
Let's save that and do another test.
So back over here, we might immediately have a little bit of an issue.
And you might also notice that we've got a negative time right here.
So don't worry too much about the warning that we have down here that's related to some behind the scenes
stuff going on with next JJ's totally fine.
The reason we're seeing a negative value right here and chances are you see a negative one as well,
is that.
Well, the order itself has already expired.
So let's go and create another order.
And we should see it initially start off at about 60 or 59 seconds or so.
So I'm going to go back to my main ticket listing.
I'll view one of these tickets, I'll purchase it.
And there we go.
I get 59.90 9 seconds until the order expires.
Okay.
So not the worst thing in the world once again.
So now let's put together a interval function.
So we're going to use set interval to essentially run this calculation once per second.
And every second we're going to recalculate the number of milliseconds left and then, like I said,
update a piece of state which will cause the entire component to re render.
To set up the interval.
We're going to make use of the use effect hook as well to make sure that we only attempt to set the
interval up exactly one time.
So at the top of the file.
I'm going to import use effect and use state.
From React.
Well, then create a new piece of state that I will call.
I'm left.
And I'm going to default that to be an empty string.
I'm then going to create.
A use effect.
When my component first renders.
I want to call this function right here.
Only one time we're going to put together a set interval call inside of here that's going to make sure
that we calculate the amount of time left once per second.
I only want to set up that interval exactly once, so to make sure that I run this function only one
time when the component is first displayed on the screen.
I'm going to put in an empty array like so.
Then inside of here, I'm going to write out a function that is going to actually calculate the amount
of time that we have remaining.
So I will put in find time left.
I'm going to take the IMF's left line that we had just put together right here.
I'm going to cut it and put it into fine time left.
And then after finding the number of milliseconds left, I'm going to use that millisecond value right
there to update the time left piece of state.
So set time left.
I'm going to pass in my left.
I'm going to divide that by 1000 to convert it into seconds.
And then I'm also going to round this value so we don't get the 59.99.
Instead, we'll round it to just 60 seconds.
So I'm going to round the little calculation right there with a math round.
So now every time that we call Find Time Left, we're going to update our time left piece of state.
Now we just need to make sure that we call that little helper function once per second.
So right after that function, I'm going to set up a interval.
So a set interval.
I'm going to tell this thing to call.
Find time left.
Once every second, though.
Once every 1000 milliseconds.
Once again notice that I do not have any parentheses after fine time left.
If we put parentheses on there, then that is going to invoke that function and then pass the result
off to set interval.
That's not what we want.
We want to provide a reference to the fine time left function to set interval instead.
Okay.
Now, this right here is going to more or less work.
We do have to update the render or the actual returning down here.
But before we actually test this out, there are two little shortcomings around it.
First off, set interval is going to run for the first time, 1000 milliseconds into the future.
So in other words, when you call set interval, it's going to wait that amount of time before calling
that function for the very first time.
So that means that inside of our app, we're going to essentially have to wait 1/2 when this component
is first rendered before we're going to see any time up here.
Probably not what we want.
We do not want to go 1/2 without showing any time.
We want to show a time remaining up here instantly.
So I'm going to manually invoke find.
I'm left immediately.
That's going to update our time left right away.
And then 1/2 later start to call it again and again and again.
That's first fixed, number one.
The second little fix, whenever we call set interval, that's going to set up an interval or a timer
that's going to run forever unless we actually stop it.
So if we ever navigate away from this component, the timer is still going to be running.
So we need to make sure that if we ever navigate away, we stop the interval entirely.
So to do so, whenever we set up an interval, we're going to get back a timer ID.
This is an integer that is going to identify the interval that we just created.
Then to make sure that we turn off or stop this interval.
As soon as we navigate away from this component, I'm going to return a function from use effect.
And inside there I will call clear interval and pass in the timer ID.
Whenever we return a function from user effect, that function will be invoked if we are about to navigate
away from this component or if the component is going to be rendered, it's only going to call it if
the component is about to be rendered.
If we have a dependency listed inside of this array right here, but since we have an empty array,
this function is only going to be called if we navigate away or stop showing this component for some
reason.
Okay.
So this should work.
Last thing we have to make or take care of, though.
We have to make sure that we actually use time left inside of our div down here instead of the RMS left.
So let's update that div.
And we'll say about time left to pay.
And we'll stick in here.
I'm left seconds.
And that should be it.
Now just you know, we might get a little warning when we try to run this code because we are referencing
some kind of dependency inside of here.
Without referencing it inside of that array.
So if you see a warning inside of your console that says something like, Oh, you have to provide a
dependency list to use effect.
What we got to do is add inside of here order like.
So that should make that little warning that might pop up go away.
So let's save that.
I'm going to flip back over.
I can refresh and there we go.
So we're going further and further negative right now.
Well, let's try to create another order and make sure that it just counts down from 60.
So I'll go back to my list of tickets.
I'm going to create a new order.
There we go, 60, 59, 58, 57 and so on.
Well, timer definitely works.
Definitely looks good.
Now, all we have to do is make sure that once this thing hits 0 seconds, we update the entire component
and presumably show something that instead of says time left to pay, we should instead just say sorry
about the order has expired.
Let's give that a shot in just a moment.